So! Really I should've written this much earlier than I did but there's been a lot of shit going on between people being hyped for lots of different games all at once. So right now, I'm going to do what I can to educate people on the things that I'm pretty sure they'll need to know going in. I'm not going to be pretty or index a whole lot of shit here; it's just going to be information, information, information. Keep up. Anything that I haven't introduced or you need clarification for, ask about and I'll add, or we'll cover in the game directly. I'm intentionally not giving *all* of the information... and not all of this is known by your characters, as new vampires(for the most part).

Experience: everyone wants it. The system in 2nd edition Chronicles of Darkness is fairly unified. Five Beats make one Experience. 4 Experiences buy you an Attribute dot, or an Out of Clan Discipline dot. 1 Experience buys you a Merit dot, or a Skill Specialty. 2 Experiences buy a Skill dot, and 3 Experiences buy an In-Clan Discipline dot. Beats are gained from, but not limited to: fulfilling an Aspiration, after which you pick a new one at the end of the session, resolving a Condition(or, some of them don't give Beats on Resolution but for other things), failing a roll and opting to make it a Dramatic Failiure(once per scene), taking lethal(not bashing) damage in one of your rightmost health boxes, rolling a Humanity breaking point(whether you succeed or not), and at the end of every session. The Group XP system is in play for faster growth and so people don't inadvertently super-surpass one another for one reason or another. This means I expect all of you to play your characters as they would. Assumedly, they become friends... act like friends, then. Be friends. Teamwork is going to be vital in my games. You enable the party to shine, you get to shine too. Everyone wins.

Blood Potency: most of you are starting at 1. 5 Experiences buy you a point of Potency. Hitting Blood Potency 3 is a breaking point under Humanity 5, as you can no longer feed on animals. Blood Potency 6 means you have to feed on *vampires*. Oowee Rick. scary~ Every 50 years a vampire is alive automatically raises your Blood Potency by 1. Blood Potency also determines how many Vitae you can spend per turn; unless stated otherwise, it is at a 1 Vitae/Potency ratio. This is about all you'll need to know for this game since probably no one is going to hit 9 or 10.

Willpower: your character's determination and ability to go above and beyond to achive their goals. Spending a point of Willpower will add +3 to most dice pools, or +2 to a Resistance attribute, for that turn. One point of Willpower can be spent per action.

Touchstones: something that connects you with humanity and your previous mortality. They will, by their nature, test you in many ways whether they realize it or not. A vampire may be required to act in defense of their Touchstone, which can also regain your Willpower when doing so. The Touchstone is something that, in some way, touches a vampire's life, their 'Requiem', in a positive manner.

Rolling: Rolling is super simple in this game. I'm probably gonna fuck up the explanation. Everything is rolled with d10s in this game. When you want to take an action that'd need a roll(just ask), the Storyteller determines what stats it uses. Usually a combination of an Attribute and a Skill. Sometimes modified by other things. The amount of dots total = your dice pool. Roll that dice pool. I probably will do it for you unless you don't want me to. Any dice that come up 8, 9, or 10 are considered 'successes'. 10s are rolled again and still counted. If it rolls 10 again, roll it again, etc. 5 or more successes are considered an 'exceptional success'. No successes is a failure. Once per scene you can choose to make a failure a dramatic failure and take a Beat. Be aware that dramatic failures can result in some bad shit sometimes. If your dice pool is ever reduced to below 1, you roll a 'chance die'. Only a 10 is a success. A 1 is an automatic dramatic failure. Simple? Simple. No complex equations here.

Actions: There are five kinds of actions... occasionally they mix, but there are five kinds at base. Instant, Reflexive, Contested, Resisted, and Extended actions. Instant means that if you're in a combat, that's your turn. Reflexive means you don't even have to *think* about doing it; you can take a reflexive action at *any* time, even if it's not your turn, and it doesn't take your turn. A Contested action... well, that's when two people fight over a single thing. You roll your dice pool, and the Storyteller(that's me here) rolls the dice pool of the other person involved. Well, unless it's one of your party members. You're not fighting like assholes, are you? Anyways, the most number of successes wins the contested action. Resisted actions are one in which your 'opponent's resistance stat(Resolve, Composure, Stamina, or Defense) subtracts from your dice pool before a roll. And finally, Extended actions... it's shit that's going to take some time to complete. You'll be making multiple rolls over its course, with the Storyteller determining how many successes you need, and how often you roll.

Damage: There are three increasingly-perilous levels of damage in the World of Darkness: bashing, lethal, and aggravated. Lethal damage that a human would take from something is downgraded to bashing, for a vampire. This means you're usually twice as resilient as any normal human. If something would do aggravated damage to a human, a vampire downgrades it to lethal. Be careful though, because there *are* exceptions to these rules. Vampires don't really need things like organs and such, and so losing them might not really be a worry to a vampire. Might worry people around you, though, if they see it. Their bodies also don't represent damage as naturally as a human's. I'll take care of that for you if it comes up.

After taking your entire health track in bashing damage, any more bashing damage converts the leftmost box to lethal damage, then lethal will eventually be converted to aggravated damage. There's a lot of weird complex shit here. Your Storyteller may or may not house rule things to make it simpler. Or more complex if they're dumb. They should tell you.

A mortal who takes bashing damage in all of their health boxes must make a Stamina roll, or fall unconscious. They must roll every turn afterwards as well to stay conscious. Vampires do not need to worry about unconsciousness when at full bashing damage, but when at full lethal damage they will fall into torpor. When their last box is marked with aggravataed damage, they suffer Final Death. Time to make a new character.

Wounds: When hurting enough, mortals and Kindred alike suffer a -1 penalty to ALL rolls(Excepting staying conscious for mortals) when the third-rightmost health box is marked with damage. When the second-rightmost box has been marked, that penalty is upped to -2. And at the rightmost box, it is at -3.

Powers of the Blood: Kindred have multiple powers that they can take advantage of to get the upper hand in a conflict, or to better blend in with their prey. Anything that spends Vitae counts towards the Vitae/turn limit imposed by Blood Potency.
	Blush of Life: Spending one Vitae allows the vampire to, for one scene, appear actually-human. Ordinarily, no matter how they slice it, there are odd cues that make them seem... different. They are paler, have no pulse, their body is slightly below room temperature, cannot eat or drink anything but blood lest they immediately throw it up in a violent, bloody mess. Basically, all 'human' body functions have ceased to work for them. The Blush of Life allows them to spur these functions once more into motion for a scene.
	
	Kindred Senses: Any vampire can see better in the dark than a mortal, and have sharper senses in general. Not as good as the Acute Senses merit would grant, but they do not suffer vision penalties from being in the dark, and can compensate with hearing. They only suffer a -2 die penalty, normally, in full darkness, if a roll requires vision. All Kindred can see even the tiniest traces of blood, even dried or hidden. They can hear heartbeats at three yards per dot of Blood Potency, and can smell blood from ten yards per dot of Blood Potency without a roll. This range is multiplied by dots in Auspex. If a Kindred has tasted a human's blood, they can add their Blood Potency to rolls to track a human by scent. If any of their Kindred senses apply elsewhere, their Blood Potency can be added to rolls to detect hidden people or details by traces of blood.
	
	Physical Intensity: Spend a point of Vitae, get 2 dice added to any roll involving your choice of Strength, Dexterity or Stamina for a turn. While Traits derived from these Attributes will not increase, resistances can and will.
	
	Healing: One point of Vitae can heal two points of bashing damage, or one point of lethal damage. A single point of aggravated damage requires 5 Vitae, and a full day's sleep. It can leave a scar on Kindred, and appears natural, unlike the damage as it originally was.
	
Daysleep: Ah, yes, here we go. We're vampires here, gotta sleep during the day and be awake at night. The daysleep calls hard and it is difficult to resist. Succeeding a Stamina + Resolve roll allows the vampire to stay awake and alert, but gain the Lethargic condition. With an Exceptional success, they can avoid the condition. When a Kindred sleeps, they *stay* asleep. Only direct threats(fire, sunlight, etc.) will wake them, and they wake near-immediately. When their slumber *is* disturbed, make a Humanity roll. Succeeding allows the Kindred to remain awake for turns equal to their Humanity. Failing... welp. Have fun being asleep. If they exceed 5 + BP successes during waking turns, they can stay awake if they choose. *Any* time a vampire awakens from slumber, they immediately expend a point of Vitae to wake. Normally, a vampire always wakes shortly after the sun goes down. The process? Imagine a fatal heart attack in reverse.

Daysleep contd. Healing: Kindred automatically heal damage that does not count as Health damage as if it were never there when sleeping. Meanwhile, when sleeping, the body automatically will spend Vitae to heal wounds. This can sometimes mean that a vampire will not have the Vitae to wake. If this may happen, they can spend one Willpower per wound(no matter the level) to fight the healing process in their sleep, so they do not spend excess Vitae. This, however, makes the wound(the aesthetic portion of it, not the mechanical portion) permanent.

Predatory Aura: All Kindred must deal with their Beast, the predatory aspect of their natures that stands ready with them to face threats, defend terrotory... and to feed. Everything is a challenge in some way to the Beast. And to all Kindred, this is palpable, perceptible, in the predatory aura. It makes many interactions with other vampires difficult and potentially much less civil, but forces them to hold to certain traditions to keep the Beast at bay enough to build a modicum of actual society. Mechanically, unless a Discipline or other ability masks or suppresses this, all Kindred can spy their own kind. The smell, the touch, the cues... all of these things can key one Kindred into another. This may be one-sided depending on the interaction. Furthermore, a vampire can intensify their predatory aura to elicit a reaction. When used against other Kindred, this can escalate an encounter. In mortals, this is used to cow lesser creatures and assert dominance. Lashing Out is an instant action. Against Kindred, it takes a point of Willpower. Against mortals... it's free. 

Depending on how you lash out, this can reflect the way a Kindred approaches their confrontation. When Lashing Out, the vampire must take an action appropriate to the aspect of the Predator used. The monstrous Beast is just that... they growl, gnash their teeth, threaten. The seductive Beast slides up to their prey, whispers sweet nothings... and the competitive Beast might draw a line in the sand or announce their terms. Roll Blood Potency + Strength(monstrous)/Presence(seductive)/Intelligence(competitive). Disciplines do not add to the rolls unless specifically mentioned.

	The Monstrous Beast: Invoking the Monstrous Beast inspires the fight or flight response in a witness. Its only instinct is to destroy. Causes the Bestial Condition.
	The Seductive Beast: Inspires hot abandon, an escape from reality. Evokes the primal need for instant gratification, and causes the Wanton Condition.
	The Competitive Beast: Inspires the need to come out on top, command, and control. Rings of power plays, dominance, rigid hierarchy, and a food chain. Causes the Competitive Condition.
	
If the victim chooses to fight, they roll the appropriate Power Attribute + Blood Potency. They do not have to respond with the same type of Beast. If the original aggressor achieves more successes in this contested action, the victim gains the condition associated with the aggressor's Beast, and the aggressor gains +2 to any rolls to achieve their aspect's interests during the scene. If the victim achieves more successes, they turn the situation on their aggressor and the opposite earlier described happens. Mortals can fight the Beast, but cannot impose a condition if they succeed. The victim may also choose to flee, which costs nothing. They gain the condition associated with the aggressor's Beast, and the aggressor can pursue if they wish.

Frenzy: When faced with strong enough stimulus, a vampire may need to resist the Beast inside of them, lest they enter Frenzy as the Beast takes over to achieve its goals. All Kindred can resist the Beast, but eventually they will need to confront their own monstrosity as they are forced to fight, feed, or flee. Frenzying Kindred can also lash out with their predatory aura if they choose. Though a frenzy can be inspired by many things, the goal is simple: end the problem using any means necessary. Roll Resolve + Composure to resist the Beast with modifiers as the Storyteller may give.

	Dramatic Failure results in frenzy and the inability to end it until a breaking point is reached. If the Beast gets its desire... choose a new one. Failure results in *just* frenzy. Success resists the Beast, but gives the Tempted condition. Exceptional success results in not only resisting the Beast but regaining a point of spent Willpower, and any points of Willpower spent fighting the Beast during the scene. Spending Willpower does not add three dice to the roll to fight the Beast, but outright keeps it at bay for one turn. The vampire may snarl, smash things, or run off, but they must still face their Beast. Once they stop spending Willpower, roll Resolve + Composure + the Willpower spent previously.

	Upon entering Frenzy, the Beast determines what it wants, and the frenzy ends when the Beast gets it. A Touchstone can talk them out of it, but requires successes equal to their Blood Potency * 3 and can only make one roll per turn. In frenzy, the vampire gains bonus dots in Strength, Dexterity and Stamina equal to their Blood Potency, surpassing any limits. Grabbing and biting can be established as a *single* instant action. The grapple does lethal damage, and takes a point of Vitae immediately from the victim. While social efforts and Disciplines cannot *stop* the Beast, they can divert the Beast to another if applicable. The frenzying vampire gives themselves entirely to the Beast's desires. The Storyteller does not control the vampire, as some might think; the player is expected to roleplay their character in this manner. A frenzied vampire will do anything to accomplish what the Beast wants with immediate and vicious abandon. If someone gets in their way, they are decked or thrown aside. If they're hungry, the closest thing gets bitten. However, the Beast isn't stupid; it's capable of doing the things an enraged, terrified or starved animal can, and if Lashing Out will sate it it will do that too. Acting contrary to the Beast's desires will take one point of Willpower per turn.
	
Riding the Wave: A Kindred can grab their Beast by its reins and wield its terrifying power. To do so, spend a point of Willpower, and make the normal Resolve + Composure roll. The Willpower point does not add to the roll. Success holds off the Beast for a turn as if they'd spent Willpower. They can continue to spend Willpower and roll until they fail, run out of Willpower, or achieve five successes in total. Any failure on this roll is a dramatic failure. Five successes allows the Kindred to ride the wave, which is functionally identical to a normal frenzy with *all* of its benefits, but with the vampire able to choose the Beast's desire and target at the outset.

Torpor: Extreme injury or starvation can cause the Kindred to fall into torpor, the Sleep of Ages.  They appear dead; skin tightens and dries out, joints harden, and they become ashen. During torpor the Kindred experiences vivid but nonsensical dreams that keep their mind active. This is meant to prepare the vampire for a new world in which they may wake... but occasionally, the vampire may wake up as a new person, or with distorted memories. A vampire can choose to fall into torpor to shake off feeding restrictions imposed by blood potency. Every 25 years of slumber, a vampire will lose a dot of Blood Potency. The Storyteller can calculate how long at minimum a vampire must spend when they fall to torpor; seriously it just takes up too much space to list. Additionally, a vampire with two or more dots of Potency higher than the sleeper's can forcibly feed them one Vitae to awaken them. This carries risk of blood bonds and addiction.

Vitae Addiction: If a Kindred drinks another Kindred's blood, they must make a Resolve + Composure roll with a -1 for each blood point consumed. Failure inflicts the Addicted condition(Persistent). As such, any time they're presented with possible opportunities to drink more, they must indulge, succeed a Resolve + Composure roll, or gain the Deprived condition. If they are tempted by a Kindred with Vitae, a Contested roll of the tempters Manipulation + Persuasion/Expression/Subterfuge(depending on the situation) vs. their Resolve + Composure.

Blood Bonds/Vinculum: Blood bonds are dangerous, usually one-sided emotions borne of Vitae. There have been many uses for it in the past, too many to go into, but the general gist is: it can be very bad. The bond is called the thrall, and the bonder the regnant. Some Kindred do this as lovers, to intensify their feelings towards one another... but oftentimes, it is not so benign. Any time *any* character imbibes a point of vampiric Vitae, it creates or reinforces a Blood Bond. Spending a point of Willpower, then making a Blood Potency roll minus the number of Vitae ingested can resist a bond, but still cause them to suffer Vitae addiction. Further attempts to resist the bond suffer a cumulative -1 penalty. Even the most ancient Kindred cannot refuse the bond forever. Mortals are helpless against it. There are three stages:

	Stage One: The regnant receives +1 on any social or Discipline roll against their thrall. Causing direct or indirect harm to one's regnant is a breaking point at Humanity 5 or higher. Most experience it like a crush or butterflies in the stomach, even if they might know deep down that they shouldn't have these feelings. It isn't love, unless you don't know any better.
	Stage Two: Regnant receives +2 on social or Discipline rolls against the thrall. Direct or indirect harm caused to the regnant by the thrall is a breaking point at Humanity 3 or higher. The feeling is easy to confuse for actual love. The affection is strong, and you consistently want more.
	Stage Three: Regnant really doesn't even need to try at this point with the thrall. Direct or indirect harm caused to the regnant by the thrall is a breaking point at Humanity 1. All Disciplines used by the regnant on the thrall have extra duration. A third stage blood bond shatters all other existing bonds, and prevents further bonds from forming. It's full-blown dependence, infatuation. You would do *anything* for your regnant. You couldn't stand them neglecting you. You would step between them and others, because you don't want it to ruin what you have with your regnant.